The purpose of this assignment was to give the students experience with two plain-text data formats. These include comma-separated values (CSV) and JavaScript Object Notation (JSON). This assignment required me to use libraries such as OpenCSV, JSON.simple, JUnit 4.x, and Hamcrest 1.x for these formats and to create a converter to translate a specific data set to and from CSV and JSON formats in java programming. I also gained extra experience using the Git client and the Junit testing framework.
I was expected to create two separate conversion methods within the converter.java program file. The first was to convert the given CSV data to JSON. The CSV was a file containing the grades of eight students. This file had their student IDs, two separate assignments, and an exam grade. In CSV the grades are represented as strings which when converted to JSON would have to change into an integer. For converting from CSV to JSON I had to first initialize the CSV reader and iterator followed by creating a JSON object. Since JSON is organized differently than CSV, I had to initialize three separate JSON arrays for the column headers, row headers, and data row. I then created a method that iterated through the lines of CSV and selected only the column headers using a for loop and placed them into the column headers JSON array. For the row and data arrays, I used a while loop to iterate through and then used another for loop to be sure I selected what would specifically go to each JSON array. For the other conversion method, I had to reverse the conversion of CSV to JSON and go from JSON to CSV. This consisted of me initializing a JSON parser and a CSV writer. After that was initialized, I had to parse the JSON string and initialize the JSON data to get the data. After that, I had to create CSV string arrays to hold the data pulled from JSON. I used one for loop to populate the column headers and another for loop for the row and data arrays. I used the CSV writer to then write the data to a string. I finished it off by closing the CSV writer. 
When running the program, it did not throw any exceptions and it properly printed the exact information given in both the CSV file and JSON file. I knew it was done correctly because my results match the format given in the example output of what it should result in. I was able to learn more about the four libraries. I also got more coding experience using VS Code for java programming. I learned that the arrays in JSON are different from CSV arrays. When converting from CSV to JSON you transfer the CSV data into a regular string array when iterating through the lines and then pull from the array created and place it into the JSON array. I was able to figure out better and easier ways to create data structures, nest them, and populate them with the proper format. I now have a more in-depth view of the inner workings of comma-separated values and JavaScript Object Notation and their formats. 
